<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Download</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="_static/pygments.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="_static/epub.css" />
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.python.org/3/download.html" />
    
      
    

    
    <style>
      @media only screen {
        table.full-width-table {
            width: 100%;
        }
      }
    </style>
 

  </head><body>


    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
<h1>Download Python 3.12.3 Documentation</h1>

<p><b>Last updated on: Jun 01, 2024 (23:02 UTC).</b></p>

<p>To download an archive containing all the documents for this version of
Python in one of various formats, follow one of links in this table.</p>

<table class="docutils">
  <tr><th>Format</th><th>Packed as .zip</th><th>Packed as .tar.bz2</th></tr>
  <tr><td>PDF (US-Letter paper size)</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-pdf-letter.zip">Download</a> (ca. 13 MiB)</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-pdf-letter.tar.bz2">Download</a> (ca. 13 MiB)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr><td>PDF (A4 paper size)</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-pdf-a4.zip">Download</a> (ca. 13 MiB)</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-pdf-a4.tar.bz2">Download</a> (ca. 13 MiB)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr><td>HTML</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-html.zip">Download</a> (ca. 9 MiB)</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-html.tar.bz2">Download</a> (ca. 6 MiB)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr><td>Plain Text</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-text.zip">Download</a> (ca. 3 MiB)</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs-text.tar.bz2">Download</a> (ca. 2 MiB)</td>
  </tr>
 <tr><td>EPUB</td>
    <td><a href="archives/python-3.12.3-docs.epub">Download</a> (ca. 5 MiB)</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p>These archives contain all the content in the documentation.</p>


<h2>Unpacking</h2>

<p>Unix users should download the .tar.bz2 archives; these are bzipped tar
archives and can be handled in the usual way using tar and the bzip2
program. The <a href="https://infozip.sourceforge.net">Info-ZIP</a> unzip program can be
used to handle the ZIP archives if desired. The .tar.bz2 archives provide the
best compression and fastest download times.</p>

<p>Windows users can use the ZIP archives since those are customary on that
platform. These are created on Unix using the Info-ZIP zip program.</p>


<h2>Problems</h2>

<p>If you have comments or suggestions for the Python documentation, please send
email to <a href="mailto:docs@python.org">docs@python.org</a>.</p>

            <div class="clearer"></div>
          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>